# The-multiple-sgRNA-CRISPR-Cas9-Permutation-Python
Knocking out dominantly inherited genes in polyploid species requires mutations simultaneously across all different alleles on homo(eoe)ologous chromosomes. The efficient generation of tetra-allelic mutants in one step is still challenging for functional genomics in autotetraploid potato. We performed computational work to obtain frequencies of bi- and tetra-allelic events for CRISPR/Cas9 applications where different numbers of sgRNAs are used for both diploid and autotetraploid plants. It revealed that the use of multiple (non-overlapping) sgRNAs for targeting a single gene in a tetraploid plant could induce a highly increased number of tetra-allelic events (both at a target site and between different target sites) as well as defined excision events between target sites, allowing easy and affordable selection of tetra-allelic mutants using a standard PCR. We carried out the experimental work in tetraploid potato using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation with the four sgRNA expression construct for a potato gene and demonstrated that using the multiple sgRNA/CRISPR/Cas9 generates tetra-allelic mutants in potato T0 generation more efficiently and makes easy selection by PCR feasible. We also tested another 4 sgRNA construct where two sgRNAs are overlapping for other potato gene, seemingly less efficient than the non-overlapping 4 sgRNA system. We observed various size of expected excisions as well as some unexpected excision events. Through our results the multiple sgRNAs/CRISPR/Cas9 could be useful for generating tetra-allelic mutants in autotetraploid plants in terms of functional genomic studies. 
